# School_District_Analysis
## Project Overview
Utilizing Anaconda and the Jupyter Notebook to analyze PyCity School District data to make strategic decisions regarding future school budgets and priorities based on the standardized test scores and current school funding.
## Resources
- Data Source: new_full_student_data.csv
- Software: Python 3.7.13, Jupyter Notebook 6.4.8
## Summary
  Once the data from the 15 high schools in the district had been collected into a single spreadsheet, 1968 rows had to be dropped due to the absence of a reading score for the student, and another 1836 rows had to be dropped due to duplication. Considering these two values are higher than the total student enrollment of more than three quarters of the schools in the district, further analysis of schools' recording keeping and data entry policies would be benefical for verifying registered enrollment by in class performance on tests.
    An overview of the data indicates that while reading and math scores share a similar standard deviation, the average math score is 8 points lower than the avrage reading score. But for the 9th grade, that average point spread is only 3, and for grades 11 and 12, that point spread increases to 11. How these test scores get further apart as students progress through grade levels is important in determining what schools could benefit from additional higher grade maths programs/after school support for interested students. Though the student with the lowest reading score in this dataset, attending Dixon High School, the scores of other students in that school do not vary drastically from the district's overall average.
    The district's public schools' budgets are roughly 4.4% higher than the district's charter schools', but the district's three largest schools--Montegomery, Green, and Dixon--are all charter schools. Comparing how these schools allocate their funding may help the public schools use their larger budgets to increase enrollment, and help discover possible fundraising opportunities for the charter schools to supplement their smaller budgets. Another avenue of investigation that might help both types of schools is how their math programs differ. While the charter schools have a 3 point higher test score average for the 9th, 10th, and 11th grades, that trend is reversed for the 12th grade and public schools have a 3 point higher math score average.
    These trends in school performance indicate several specific areas where the school board can utilize each school's more successful practices and programs to improve the distict's overall budgeting practices and standardized test preparation.
